.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii smithproxy.1
.\"
.TH SMITHPROXY 1 "APR 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.B smithproxy 
\- agent Smith's favorite mitm proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smithproxy [--debug|--diagnose|--dump] [--conf <non-default-config>] [--daemonize]

.SH DESCRIPTION
smithproxy \- agent Smith's favorite mitm proxy, brought to you by Ales Stibal
<astib@mag0.net>

.SH Introduction
.B Smithproxy
is capturing, plain-text or SSL man-in-the-middle proxy for Linux iptables TPROXY target.
It supports SSL certificate spoofing - cloning the original certificate including
Subject and SAN, signing it with it's own CA certificate.
.br
Smitproxy can also proxy UDP plaintext traffic.

.br
It works the way that it terminates traffic intended to be forwarded on itself, and 
originating new session to the traffic target. Those sessions are then proxied by
copying bytes from one socket to another.

.B "Diagram"
.nf
    Normally without any mitm proxy:
    
      Client (conn A) ----> (Linux Router) -----X target server 
.fi

.nf
    Intercepted with smithproxy:
    
      Client (conn A) ----> (Linux Router).-----X target server
                                |         | 
                               TPROXY     (conn B) 
                                |         ^
                                `---X smithproxy

.fi

.br

.B "SSL:"
.br
Certificate spoofing uses default server certificate's private and public keys; 
certificates produced this way are cached for further use.

.br
When would use SSL inspection (enabled by default), certificate warning messages
will appear. This is because target servers' SSL certificates are resigned by 
internal CA. 

.B "SSL: How to avoid certificate warnings"
.br
You may want to install this ca root certificate "/etc/smithproxy/certs/ca-cert.pem"
file) into your 'Trusted Root CA' certificate store.
.br
.B "WARNING:"
in such a case you will unconditionally trust all certificates it resigned!

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "--diagnose (optional)"
toggle diagnose mode; it will print out quite number of diagnostics. Those aim to be 
human, non-programmer readable and could help you to identify where potential problem is.

.IP "--debug (optional, not recommended)"
toggle impractically verbose logging mode, extremely chatty especially for SSL traffic. 
You probably don't want to use it, unless you really need to know state machine cycle
updates and similar info needed to troubleshoot the program itself.

.IP "--dump (optional, not recommended)"
toggle this to make your terminal busy. Most of 'Dump' level logging really dumps read/write 
buffers and prints out memory allocation pointers. Added for completeness and just for the case.

.IP "--conf (optional, default: /etc/smithproxy/smithproxy.cfg)"
You can override config file to be used by this setting. Usually not needed.

.IP "--daemonize (optional)"
Run smithproxy in the background. Settings to log to stdout/stderr are ignored,
only logging to the file could be used.


.SH CONFIG FILE
As you see, there are not much options for the command line. This is because 
we utilize quite large config file, which should be however very well readable and
self-explaining.
.br
Config file is usually located in 
.B "/etc/smithproxy/smithproxy.cfg"
, however you may override it with 
.B "--conf"
command line option.

.SH USAGE
To make smithproxy work, you need at least following configuration:


.nf
  # if you don't have routing enabled yet, set it like this:
  sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
  
  # create a new iptables chain, name it DIVERT
  iptables -t mangle -N DIVERT
  iptables -t mangle -A DIVERT -j MARK --set-mark 1
  iptables -t mangle -A DIVERT -j ACCEPT
 
  # process all non-local connections matching socket locally
  iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -p tcp -m socket -j DIVERT
  iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -p udp -m socket -j DIVERT

  # add custom routing rule for above marked packets to be processed 
  # through loopback interface
  ip rule add fwmark 1 lookup 100
  ip route add local 0.0.0.0/0 dev lo table 100
  
  # redirect new traffic to chain SMITH
  iptables -t mangle -N SMITH
  iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -j SMITH
  
  # You can utilize /usr/share/smithptoxy/utils/ipt_chain_setup.sh to create
  # chain SMITH for you. If you want to do it manually, fell free ;)
  
  # if you are finished, run smithproxy
  smithproxy 
.fi
   
.SH OUTPUT
.IP Logging
Standard logging is informing about new/closed connections, and general
status messages, depending on logging level set on command line. By default
it's set to 'Informational'.
.br
It doesn't contain any packet captures.

.IP "Capture directory"
Captures are organized in the structure:
.nf
   <write_payload_dir>/
      [source IP]/
         [date of capture]/
            <write_payload_file_prefix>[proxy connection ID].<write_payload_file_suffix> -- capture file
   
   Note: entries in square-brackets cannot be changed, angle-brackets values
         could be changed in config file.
.fi

This structure is automatically created, so you don't need to worry
to just delete it if your tests are over, or you are running out of disk space.

.IP "Capture file format"
Capture file is text file, similar to `hexdump -C' output. You can however find
several notes in there; for example if the traffic was SSL, smithproxy logs also original server's certificate.


.SH LIMITATIONS
* Smithproxy is changing source IP address and source port (won't fix).
.br
* Captures are text files not usable by e.g. wireshark 


.SH FILES
.nf 
/etc/smithproxy.cfg
               -- config file
/etc/smithproxy/certs/defaults/
  ca-cert.pem  -- Spoofing CA certificate, issuer for spoofing server 
                  connection certificate
                  - this file should be loaded to Trusted Root CA to
                     get rid of browser certificate warnings
  ca-key.pem   -- Spoofing CA private key, signing spoofed server
                  certificate
  cl-cert.pem  -- Default server-side connection certificate 
  cl-key.pem   -- Default server-side connection private key
  srv-cert.pem -- Default client-side connection certificate 
  srv-key.pem  -- Default client-side connection private key
  
mitm/
               -- Directory containing packet captures. 
.fi
.RS

.SH BUGS
See LIMITATIONS above. All known limitations are on short list for fixes to new release, 
unless explicitly explained.
.br
Smithproxy has been  tested with valgrind tool and didn't exhibit any leaks.

.SH COPYLEFT
This software is released under GNU GPL license (version 2 or later). 
The underlying Socle library taking care of all that proxying/spoofing is 
licensed with LGPL version 2 or later.

.SH AUTHOR
.B "Ales Stibal" 
<astibal@mag0.net>, (c) 2014
.br

.br
I would prefer you won't use it for sneaking into other's privacy, as it's intended 
to be used as testing/troubleshooting tool.
.br

.br
Big thanks to my family and my wife Katka for their endless patience with me while hacking this
tool for you!

