.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii smithproxy.1
.\"
.TH SMITHPROXY 1 "APR 2014" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.B smithproxy 
\- agent Smith's favorite mitm proxy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B smithproxy [--debug|--diagnose|--dump] [--ssl] --port 
.I <listen_port> 

.SH DESCRIPTION
smithproxy \- agent Smith's favorite mitm proxy, brought to you by Ales Stibal
<astibal@gmail.com>

.SH Introduction
.B Smithproxy
is capturing, plain-text or SSL man-in-the-middle proxy for Linux iptables TPROXY target.
It supports SSL certificate spoofing - cloning the original certificate including
Subject and SAN, signing it with it's own CA certificate.
.br
It works the way that it terminates traffic intended to be forwarded on itself, and 
originating new session to the traffic target. Those sessions are then proxied by
copying bytes from one socket to another.

.B "Diagram"
.nf
    Normally without any mitm proxy:
    
      Client (conn A) ----> (Linux Router) -----X target server 
.fi

.nf
    Intercepted with smithproxy:
    
      Client (conn A) ----> (Linux Router).-----X target server
                                |         | 
                               TPROXY     (conn B) 
                                |         ^
                                `---X smithproxy

.fi

.br
.IP 
.B SSL:
Certificate spoofing uses default server certificate's private and public keys; 
certificates produced this way are cached for further use.
.br
If you are testing something, you are probably bored with certificate warning messages. 
In that case you want to install 
.B "ca-cert.pem" 
file into your 'Trusted Root CA' certificate store.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-p,--port <port> (optional, with default value)"  
specify port this smithproxy process should be listening on. You want to properly combine it with
iptables setting aiming it to this port (see USAGE). Default: 8080

.IP "--ssl (optional)"
toggle SSL mode. All incoming traffic is considered SSL. Target server certificates will be spoofed 
automatically and will presented to the SSL client.

.IP "--diagnose (optional)"
toggle diagnose mode; it will print out quite number of diagnostics. Those aim to be 
human, non-programmer readable and could help you to identify where potential problem is.

.IP "--debug (optional, not recommended)"
toggle non-practical verbose logging mode, extremely chatty especially for SSL traffic. 
You probably don't want to use it, unless you really need to know state machine cycle
updates and similar info needed to troubleshoot the program itself.

.IP "--dump (optional, not recommended)"
toggle this to make your terminal busy. Most of 'Dump' level logging really dumps read/write 
buffers and prints out memory allocation pointers. Added for completeness and just for the case.


.SH USAGE
Smithproxy is usually best applicable on linux router. To make it work, you need
at least following configuration:

.nf
# if you don't have routing enabled, set it like this (uncomment):
.B "# sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1"

# create a new iptables chain, name it DIVERT
iptables -t mangle -N DIVERT

# PREROUTING phase: process all connections matching local socket 
# in DIVERT chain, mark it and accept
.B "iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -p tcp -m socket -j DIVERT"
.B "iptables -t mangle -A DIVERT -j MARK --set-mark 1"
.B "iptables -t mangle -A DIVERT -j ACCEPT"

# add custom routing rule for above marked packets to be processed 
# through loopback interface
.B "ip rule add fwmark 1 lookup 100"
.B "ip route add local 0.0.0.0/0 dev lo table 100"

# this is rather for new connections (local socket is  not created 
# for them yet - smithproxy will create it):

.B "iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -p tcp -i eth1 --dport 80 -j TPROXY \\\\ "
.B "  --tproxy-mark 0x1/0x1 --on-port 50080"

.B " iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -p tcp -i eth1 --dport 443 -j TPROXY \\\\ "
.B "  --tproxy-mark 0x1/0x1 --on-port 50443"

.fi
As the next step you probably want to run smithproxy and accept connections 
at ports you configured (50080 and 50443 in the example above). One 
of them handling plain-text (50080) and the other SSL traffic (50443).

You can do it this way:
.br
router:/dir/of/smithproxy$ ./smithproxy -p 50080
.br
or for SSL:
.br
router:/dir/of/smithproxy$ ./smithproxy --ssl ---port 50443
.br

.SH OUTPUT
.IP Logging
Standard logging is informing about new/closed connections, and general
status messages, depending on logging level set on command line. By default
it's set to 'Informational'.
.br
It doesn't contain any packet captures.

.IP "Capture directory"
Captures are organized in the structure:
.nf
   mitm/
      <source IP>/
         <date of capture>/
            mitm_dump_<proxy connection ID> -- capture file
.fi

This structure is automatically created, so you don't need to worry
to just delete it if your tests are over, or you are running out of disk space.

.IP "Capture file format"
Capture file is text file, similar to `hexdump -C' output.  If the traffic was SSL,
smithproxy prints out also original server's certificate.


.SH LIMITATIONS
* Smithproxy is changing source IP address and source port (won't fix).
.br
* Smithproxy is running in foreground 
.br
* Logs to standard output
.br
* Uses relative path for certificate and capture files 
.br
* Captures are text files not usable by e.g. wireshark 
.br
* Since no higher layer protocol parser is implemented yet, 

.SH FILES
.nf 
certs/
  ca-cert.pem  -- Spoofing CA certificate, issuer for spoofing server 
                  connection certificate
                  - this file should be loaded to Trusted Root CA to
                     get rid of browser certificate warnings
  ca-key.pem   -- Spoofing CA private key, signing spoofed server
                  certificate
  cl-cert.pem  -- Default server-side connection certificate 
  cl-key.pem   -- Default server-side connection private key
  srv-cert.pem -- Default client-side connection certificate 
  srv-key.pem  -- Default client-side connection private key
  
mitm/
               -- Directory containing packet captures. 
.fi
.RS

.SH BUGS
See LIMITATIONS above. All known limitations are on short list for fixes to new release, 
unless explicitly explained.
.br
Smithproxy has been  tested with valgrind tool and didn't exhibit any leaks.

.SH COPYLEFT
This software is released under BSD 3-clause license. 

.SH AUTHOR
.B "Ales Stibal" 
<astibal@gmail.com>, (c) 2014
.br

.br
I would prefer you won't use it for sneaking into other's privacy, as it's intended 
to be used as testing/troubleshooting tool.
.br

.br
Big thanks to my family and my wife Katka for their endless patience with me while hacking this
tool for you!

